

2025-03-18 13:20

Status: #Child

Tags:[[Web Development]] 


# 1.2 IP addresses, domain names, and URLs

## IP addresses:
Computers communicate over the internet through packets. An internet **packet** contains To and From IP addresses, the information to communicate, and other configuration information.

An [[IP address]] is a computer's unique address on the internet.
- The original Internet Protocol (IPv4) has 32-bit addresses. 32 bits can represent 2 to the power of 32 or about 4 billion unique addresses.
- IPv6 uses 128-bit addresses, representing 2 to the power of 128 addresses. that number is 3.4 x 10 to the power of 38 or 340,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.

## Domain names and DNS:
- A [[domain name]] is a name for an [[IP address]].
- When a computer sends a packet using a domain name over the internet, the first step is to contact a **DNS server** to convert the domain name to an IP address. **DNS** is short for Domain Name System.
- thirteen main DNS servers (called [[root servers]]) exist in the world, and a computer's operating system or an ISP keeps a reference to the root servers' IP addresses.

## Domain name levels:
- Domain names are hierarchical; they belong to numerous [[top-level domains]] (**TLD**)
- Each country is assigned a unique two-letter [[country code top-level domain]] (**ccTLD**)
- [[IANA]] allows companies/organizations to create custom TLDs.
- Then comes [[second-level domain]] commonly an organizations name, or indicating purpose of website
- Third-level and further refer to sub-computer systems local to an organizations,

## URLs
- A [URL] (**Uniform Resource Locator**) is the location of a web resource on the web.
- A **web resource** is any retrievable item, like an HTML file, image, video, CSS stylesheet, etc.
- A URL is composed of several parts:
	- **Scheme** - Characters at the beginning of the URL followed by a colon ":" or a colon and double slashes "://".
	- **Hostname** - The complete domain name following the scheme in the URL.
	- **Path** - The characters to the right of the hostname in the URL
	- **Query string** - Optional characters to the right of the question mark (?) in a URL that provide data for the web server.
	- **Fragment** - Optional characters at the end of a URL that stars with a hash character (#) and refer toa certain location within a webpage.


## Webpage errors
If a domain name is not found by a DNS server or not registered, the page usually says  "Sorry, 'website' cannot be found"

Or if a web server is reached but the requested page isn't found, the server returns a **404** status code for page not found.


# References
